# Thermal Modeling Project

## Overview
The goal of this project was to understand the heat dissipation from the underwater housing of the ReefScan platforms to inform the design of future electronics housings. Heat is generated by the electronics operating in the air-tight housing. That heat must be dissipated into the surrounding sea water while maintaining an internal temperature that is within the operating limits of the electronics components. This project was proposed by Dev but transitioned to be primarily working with Trevor.

## Method
Initial modeling was primarily documented in the series of PDFs titled "Aims_Thermal_Study" 1-5. A simple resistance model was used to find the steady state temperature expected from the conduction and convection involved in dissipating the heat. Calculations for this were performed primarily in MATLAB online. In conjunction, data was pulled from log files from operations of the ReefScan Transom and plotted over time. This data was plotted using [Thermal Graphing](ThermalGraphing.py). From there, adjustments were made to the modeling coefficents to attempt to better match the experimental data. A brief early attempt at matching in the time domain was made using the ODE solver function in [Thermal Differential Graph](ThermalDifferentialGraph.py).

At this point it was clear that additional methods were necessary to dissipate heat. A radially expaning clamp to hold components to the inside of the housing directly with aluminium was prototyped in Inventor and adjusted for production. (Update if/when prototype is produced).

After consultation with Trevor, a heat pipe from the electronics to the end cap was selected as the likely method forward. From modeling, the endcap was not sufficient to dissipate the full amount of heat without reaching a temperature close to if not exceeding the limit of 65 \degree C. New designs for incoperating fins were modeled in Inventor and Nastran FEA performed to evaluate structural and thermal performance.

FEA in NASTRAN confirmed that endcap was insufficient to dissipate the heat. However, once CFD was used, results were significantly different that expected. I'm not completely sure where all the heat is going since the heat fluxes don't quite seem to add up correctly but the interaction is far more spacially dependent than previously considered. 

To complete CFD modeling, a simplified version was constructed in Inventor that reduced the components to primative shapes. Materials were assigned as designed, with PCB material used for the board, and silicon for the components. Heat was generated via volumetric heat generation on the silicon primatives based on the provided power consumption specs. Pressure for the boundary of the interior air and bounding water was set to ambient and the water temperature boundary was set to 30 \degree C. 

## Results
Simulated with various sets of settings and meshes, the overall result supports the need for a thermal solution beyond the existing mounting design. With worst case scenario full power draw, the components significantly exceed operating temperatures and risk major damage. However, from the CFD, it appears that there is much less of a concern about the temperature of the end cap itself reaching high temperatures as the heat is primarily retained within the electronic components themselves.

Our proposed solution is the inclusion of commercially available copper heat pipes to be added between the thermal pad/heat sink underneath the Jetson unit running directly back to the aluminium end cap. This provides a direct pathway for the heat to leave the electronic components to somewhere it can be dissipated rapidly. Introducing fins and increasing the surface area of the endcap may also improve dissipation capability into the water.

CFD results can be found in the file \CFD-Models\Default Housing Study\Default housing study.

## Uploaded Files
### AIMS Thermal Study
PDF writeups of the different early stages of the thermal modeling project. Original files are in Overleaf

### Thermal Graphing
Functions to plot all of the temperature data as a function of time from the photo log csv files in the specified folder path. Converts the filename date stamp into elapsed time. Hardcoded good and bad log number lists can exclude/include only certain log numbers. This was the first attempt at processing the data from the photo logs and is slightly clunky and contains many commented out troubleshooting and exploratory components. Can call the [solve_thermal_ivp] function from Thermal Differential Graph to plot the ODE solution on top of the log data.

### Thermal Differential Graph
Function to use the scipy.integrate solve_ivp function to compute the temperature by solving a system of equations. Based on the simple model considering only aluminium and glass and ignoring delrin. All values and constants are hardcoded in. Was not updated to include any additional considerations.

### MATLAB Files
Progressively more complex equation solver to determine the steady state temperatures and heat transfers from components within the housing system.
- Housing_Model_Thermal.m
- Housing_Model_Thermal2.m
- Proposed_Thermal_Design.m

## Other Files
### Inventor
Numerous files in Inventor including part, assembly, STEP, and FEA.  
Located in \\pearl\techdev\Engineering\MIT Interns 2024\Andrew\Documents

### CFD
Numerous file types for the CFD models and settings, and then others for results.   
These files are located in the folder CFD-Models. New_Housing-CFD is the primatives version of the original housing and New_HousingMod1-CFD is the primatives version with a finned end cap and heat pipes running from the Jetson to the endcap.  
Located in \\pearl\techdev\Engineering\MIT Interns 2024\Andrew\Documents